Document "Reference/Commands/vcpkg new" (#106)
microsoft/vcpkg-docs: vcpkg/commands/new.md

---
title: vcpkg new
description: Command line reference for the vcpkg new command. Creates a new manifest in the current directory.
ms.date: 07/05/2023
---
# vcpkg new

## Synopsis

```console
vcpkg new --application
```

```console
vcpkg new --name hello --version 1.0
```

## Description

> Writes a new manifest into the current working directory. In `--application` mode, the manifest
> contains no name or version, suitable for use in an end user application that ships in binary form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Writes a new manifest into the current working directory. 

```

Reviewer 2: After some consideration, I believe we should rewrite this to reflect that a default configuration is also getting created.

```suggestion
Creates a manifest file (`vcpkg.json`) and default configuration file (`vcpkg-configuration.json`) ready to use in your project. Use the `--application` flag if your project is an end-user application.
```

Otherwise, `--name` and `--version` are required. `--version-date`, `--version-relaxed`, or
`--version-string` can force that a particular version format is selected. For more information
about the versioning formats, see [Versioning reference](../users/versioning.md).

## Options

All vcpkg commands support a set of [common options](common-options.md).

### `--application`

> Indicates that the manifest will be used for an end user application shipped in binary forms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Creates a manifest without name and version. Suitable for use in end user applications.
```

Author: Hmmm I didn't want to describe an option as actually "doing the action" because the command is what does that.

Moreover, I intentionally did not describe 'without name and version' because we want non end-user applications to be filling in name and version, rather than using this as a 'shut up' switch.

> Indicates that the manifest will be used for an end user application shipped in binary forms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Neither the name nor version fields are included in the `vcpkg.json` manifest file. You can use this if your project is an end-user application that ships in binary form.

```

### `--name`

The name to write into the manifest.

### `--version`

Indicates the version to write into the manifest. If none of the other version format switches are

> passed, guesses the appropriate form to use based on the form of the input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
passed, infers the appropriate form to use based on the form of the input.

```

### `--version-relaxed`

Indicates that the version to write into the manifest is a 'relaxed' version. Relaxed versions
obey semantic versioning's format, but allow any number of numeric values.

### `--version-date`

Indicates that the version to write into the manifest is a 'date' version. Date versions are an
ISO 8601 date.

### `--version-string`

Indicates that the version to write into the manfest is a 'string' version with no ordering
semantics.

## Examples

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> `vcpkg new` generates metadata in `vcpkg.json` and `vcpkg-configuration.json` files. This includes integration with the experimental artifacts experience as well as vcpkg ports.

```

Author: How about:

```
> [!NOTE]
> `vcpkg new` generates metadata in `vcpkg.json` and `vcpkg-configuration.json` files. This includes
> integration with the experimental artifacts experience. In particular, the registries with
> `"kind": "artifact"` are for the experimental vcpkg-artifacts feature.`
```

### `--application`

```console
$ vcpkg new --application
$ type vcpkg.json
{}
$ type .\vcpkg-configuration.json
{
  "default-registry": {
    "kind": "git",
    "baseline": "64adda19c86e89526b5e27703a193c14477cce07",
    "repository": "https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg"
  },
  "registries": [
    {
      "kind": "artifact",
      "location": "https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg-ce-catalog/archive/refs/heads/main.zip",
      "name": "microsoft"
    }
  ]
}
```

### `--name` and `--version`

> ```console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

Reviewer: Change references of "console" to "bash" throughout this article since it looks like you're using bash for the examples anyway.

Author: Ditto

$ vcpkg new --name hello --version 2023-07-05
$ type vcpkg.json
{
  "name": "hello",
  "version-date": "2023-07-05"
}
$ type .\vcpkg-configuration.json
{
  "default-registry": {
    "kind": "git",
    "baseline": "64adda19c86e89526b5e27703a193c14477cce07",
    "repository": "https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg"
  },
  "registries": [
    {
      "kind": "artifact",
      "location": "https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg-ce-catalog/archive/refs/heads/main.zip",
      "name": "microsoft"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Asserting particular version formats

> ```console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

Author: No, these are `console`. (For example, most bash environments would have said `cat` rather than `type`)

This is also consistent with more other examples. console is used 47 times, bash is used only 15.

Reviewer 2: It's OK to leave these as `console`, especially since we don't want them to have highlighting (as they aren't actually code).

```

Creates a manifest file ([`vcpkg.json`](../reference/vcpkg-json.md)) and a default configuration file
([`vcpkg-configuration.json`](../reference/vcpkg-configuration-json.md)) ready to use in your project in the current
working directory.

Use the `--application` flag if your project is an end-user application.

If not using `--application`, `--name` and `--version` are required. `--version-date`,
`--version-relaxed`, or `--version-string` can force that a particular version format is selected.
For more information about the versioning formats, see
[Versioning reference](../users/versioning.md).

## Options

All vcpkg commands support a set of [common options](common-options.md).

### `--application`

Creates a manifest suitable for use in applications, removing the requirement to supply name and
version.

### `--name`

The name to write into the manifest.

### `--version`

Indicates the version to write into the manifest. If none of the other version format switches are
passed, infers the appropriate form to use based on the form of the input.

### `--version-relaxed`

Indicates that the version to write into the manifest is a 'relaxed' version. Relaxed versions

> obey semantic versioning's format, but allow any number of numeric values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
obey semantic versioning's format, but allow any number of numeric values. See [versioning reference](./users/versioning.md#version) for more information.

```

### `--version-date`

Indicates that the version to write into the manifest is a 'date' version. Date versions are an

> ISO 8601 date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ISO 8601 date (e.g. "YYYY-MM-DD"). See [versioning reference](./users/versioning.md#version-date) for more information. 

```

### `--version-string`

> Indicates that the version to write into the manfest is a 'string' version with no ordering

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Indicates that the version to write into the manifest is a 'string' version with no ordering

```

> semantics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
semantics. See [versioning reference](./users/versioning.md#version-string) for more information. 

```

---

> title: vcpkg new
> description: Command line reference for the vcpkg new command. Creates a new manifest in the current directory.
> ms.date: 07/05/2023

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: vcpkg new
description: Command line reference for the vcpkg new command. Creates a new manifest in the current directory.
ms.author: bion
ms.date: 07/05/2023
ms.prod: vcpkg
```

---
# vcpkg new

## Synopsis

```console
vcpkg new --application
```

```console
vcpkg new --name hello --version 1.0
```

## Description

> Creates a manifest file (`vcpkg.json`) and default configuration file (`vcpkg-configuration.json`)
> ready to use in your project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Creates a manifest file ([`vcpkg.json`](../reference/vcpkg-json.md)) and a default configuration file ([`vcpkg-configuration.json`](../reference/vcpkg-configuration-json.md)) in the current working directory.
```

> Use the `--application` flag if your project is an end-user application.
> 
> If not using `--application`, `--name` and `--version` are required. `--version-date`,
> `--version-relaxed`, or `--version-string` can force that a particular version format is selected.
> For more information about the versioning formats, see
> [Versioning reference](../users/versioning.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `--name` and `--version` options are required, unless the `--application` flag is used. 

The `--version-date`, `--version-relaxed`, or `--version-string` flags force a particular version format.
For more information about the versioning formats, see the [versioning documentation](../users/versioning.md).
```

Author: That documents 'what the application flag does' but not 'why' so I'm not a fan of this framing. It sounds like it's a 'just shut the tool up switch' phrased this way.

In particular, I don't want to encourage things that are not applications skipping name and verison.

All vcpkg commands support a set of [common options](common-options.md).

### `--application`

Creates a manifest suitable for use in applications, removing the requirement to supply name and
version.

### `--name`

The name to write into the manifest.

### `--version`

Indicates the version to write into the manifest. If none of the other version format switches are
passed, infers the appropriate form to use based on the form of the input.

### `--version-relaxed`

Indicates that the version to write into the manifest is a 'relaxed' version. Relaxed versions
obey semantic versioning's format, but allow any number of numeric values.

### `--version-date`

Indicates that the version to write into the manifest is a 'date' version. Date versions are an
ISO 8601 date.

### `--version-string`

Indicates that the version to write into the manfest is a 'string' version with no ordering
semantics.

## Examples

> [!NOTE]
> `vcpkg new` generates metadata in `vcpkg.json` and `vcpkg-configuration.json` files. This includes
> integration with the experimental artifacts experience. In particular, the registries with
> `"kind": "artifact"` are for the experimental vcpkg-artifacts feature.

> ### `--application`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### With `--application`
```

Avoids having a repeated heading

```console
$ vcpkg new --application
$ type vcpkg.json
{}
$ type .\vcpkg-configuration.json
{
  "default-registry": {
    "kind": "git",
    "baseline": "64adda19c86e89526b5e27703a193c14477cce07",
    "repository": "https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg"
  },
  "registries": [
    {
      "kind": "artifact",
      "location": "https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg-ce-catalog/archive/refs/heads/main.zip",
      "name": "microsoft"
    }
  ]
}
```

> ### `--name` and `--version`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### With `--name` and `--version`
```

To keep headers consistent

```console
$ vcpkg new --name hello --version 2023-07-05
$ type vcpkg.json
{
  "name": "hello",
  "version-date": "2023-07-05"
}
$ type .\vcpkg-configuration.json
{
  "default-registry": {
    "kind": "git",
    "baseline": "64adda19c86e89526b5e27703a193c14477cce07",
    "repository": "https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg"
  },
  "registries": [
    {
      "kind": "artifact",
      "location": "https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg-ce-catalog/archive/refs/heads/main.zip",
      "name": "microsoft"
    }
  ]
}
```

> ### Asserting particular version formats

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### With explicit version format selection
```

ditto

---
title: vcpkg new
description: Command line reference for the vcpkg new command. Creates a new manifest in the current directory.
ms.author: bion
ms.date: 07/05/2023
ms.prod: vcpkg
---
# vcpkg new

## Synopsis

```console
vcpkg new --application
```

```console
vcpkg new --name hello --version 1.0

> ```

Author: Is listing all the potential options a design goal for the examples?

> ```

Author: Also I'm not sure how I feel about `[--options]` going in every example; that seems obvious? And might make users think there is an option named `--options`...

I did add the `[--version-relaxed | --version-date | --version-string]` part.

Creates a manifest file ([`vcpkg.json`](../reference/vcpkg-json.md)) and a default configuration file ([`vcpkg-configuration.json`](../reference/vcpkg-configuration-json.md)) in the current working directory.

> Creates a manifest file (`vcpkg.json`) and default configuration file (`vcpkg-configuration.json`)
> ready to use in your project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Hmmm I think this got confused by applying multiple suggestions. Will fix!

Use the `--application` flag if your project is an end-user application.

If not using `--application`, `--name` and `--version` are required. `--version-date`,
`--version-relaxed`, or `--version-string` can force that a particular version format is selected.
For more information about the versioning formats, see
[Versioning reference](../users/versioning.md).

## Options

All vcpkg commands support a set of [common options](common-options.md).

### `--application`

Creates a manifest suitable for use in applications, removing the requirement to supply name and
version.

### `--name`

The name to write into the manifest.

### `--version`

Indicates the version to write into the manifest. If none of the other version format switches are
passed, infers the appropriate form to use based on the form of the input.

### `--version-relaxed`

Indicates that the version to write into the manifest is a 'relaxed' version. Relaxed versions
obey semantic versioning's format, but allow any number of numeric values.

### `--version-date`

Indicates that the version to write into the manifest is a 'date' version. Date versions are an

> ISO 8601 date.

Reviewer 3: Maybe add a link?

Author: ISO standards aren't publicly accessible. Or do you want a link to a wikipedia page or something like that?

Reviewer: I think we can just add an example of the format and link back to our versioning reference documentation for more information.

### `--version-string`

Indicates that the version to write into the manfest is a 'string' version with no ordering
semantics.

## Examples

> [!NOTE]
> `vcpkg new` generates metadata in `vcpkg.json` and `vcpkg-configuration.json` files. This includes

> > integration with the experimental artifacts experience. In particular, the registries with

Reviewer 3: Link for "artifacts"

Author: To where?

Reviewer: For now we can omit the link as we haven't documented artifacts yet. In the future when we do add such documentation, we can add this link.

> `"kind": "artifact"` are for the experimental vcpkg-artifacts feature.
### With `--application`

> ### `--application`

Reviewer 3: Looks like there are two headings here

Author: Suggestion application gore :(. Will fix!

```console
$ vcpkg new --application
$ type vcpkg.json
{}
$ type .\vcpkg-configuration.json
{
  "default-registry": {
    "kind": "git",
    "baseline": "64adda19c86e89526b5e27703a193c14477cce07",
    "repository": "https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg"
  },
  "registries": [
    {
      "kind": "artifact",
      "location": "https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg-ce-catalog/archive/refs/heads/main.zip",
      "name": "microsoft"
    }
  ]
}
```
### With `--name` and `--version`

> ### `--name` and `--version`

Reviewer 3: Two headings again

Author: More suggestion application failure

```console
$ vcpkg new --name hello --version 2023-07-05
$ type vcpkg.json
{
  "name": "hello",
  "version-date": "2023-07-05"
}
$ type .\vcpkg-configuration.json
{
  "default-registry": {
    "kind": "git",
    "baseline": "64adda19c86e89526b5e27703a193c14477cce07",
    "repository": "https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg"
  },
  "registries": [
    {
      "kind": "artifact",
      "location": "https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg-ce-catalog/archive/refs/heads/main.zip",
      "name": "microsoft"
    }
  ]
}
```
### With explicit version format selection

> ### Asserting particular version formats

Reviewer 3: And here

Author: More suggestion application failure
